---
title: "Royalbutts Postmortem"
date: 2023-06-29T03:56:46+05:30
draft: false
---

# Rushing a game in 3 months to strom off a government 

Post-mortem. Such an ominous word. Before you let your imagination take you away, a post-mortem is something game developers often write after the release of the game, usually reflecting on the process and touching on what could have gone better. This gameâ€™s release represents for me at least, so I reserve the right to be as extra as I want. No complaints about my melodramatics, I will not hear it. I don't know what purpose this serves, but I know I needed to write it so, this is what you get.

In Jontan Cactus's lecture for the 2009 Independent Games Summit, The Four-Hour Game Design he linked game development process to "having a baby", I think that metaphor works so well and This is how our baby was born.

## The Sex...

In mid 2022: As the Sri Lankan economical crisis got to its peak I was stuck in home, our country was at total chaos, the youth was trying to 

the first
part is really good actually most people
enjoy it quite a lot and you can compare
it to making like the idea for the game
and it's really enjoyable you have a lot
of fun and freedom in what you gonna
make and you can let your imagination
run wild and stuff and play around a lot


-introduction
     -berif about the game
     -whats a postmortem and what are we doing
     -purpose of the video, list
     -toipcs were gonna cover
- about us
     - gatheesha
          - quict personal intro
          - how i got into gamedev
          - msg for ypung devs
      - inuka
           - quick personal intro
           - how i got into gamedev
           - msg for young devs
       - games we made in the past
       - meeting
       - coming up with the idea for royal butts
- RoyalButts
     - purpose of the game
     - story and how it potrayed the themes
     - howni did the art
     - restarting development
     - programming
     - optimizing for android
     - ADs and leaderboard
     - beta testing and support from friends
- Release
     - gatarita and the story behind the name
     - marketing before release
     - reel
     - uploading to playstore
     - fucking up release date 
- Success ?
     - downloads
     - revenue
- Lessons we learned
- Future development
- 


okay so I'm gonna talk about why you
want to make a game in a short period of
time and I'm gonna make a comparison to
about making babies and how about making
a game is like making baby and the first
part is really good actually most people
enjoy it quite a lot and you can compare
it to making like the idea for the game
and it's really enjoyable you have a lot
of fun and freedom in what you gonna
make and you can let your imagination
run wild and stuff and play around a lot
yeah and then when you have your idea
you have like these high expectations
like this is gonna be great
and you really looking forward to the
final product like woah yeah and then
you realized man this is a lot harder
than I thought it would be I'm gonna
have to work a lot and you run into a

lot of unexpected problems like getting
fat and
and like bugs and annoying things like

that and it really it takes a lot of
time so we get tired of it um yeah

you get like new ideas maybe I don't
want to do this anymore maybe I would
want to do as something else and yeah

you just want it to be over with and
your friends say they stopped respecting
you because you're always sitting in
front of the computer and you're slowly
getting fatter and they don't realize
that you're actually putting a lot of
hard work into it so they kind of like
see you as this yeah and then there's

the worst part of making a game with

which is finishing it and it's kind of

painful and you you have to polish it a

lot and like buy tested and promote it
and it's it's it's not a lot of fun as
you can see from the image and when

you're finally done with it you end up
with
something completely different from what
you first hand in mine and you're quite
disappointed usually and sometimes you
learn to like live with it but yeah
other people won't really like it too
much
but then sometimes you get lucky and
you're alright yeah now I'm going to

talk about creativity and how to be
creative when making a game and usually

I personally I try to experiment a lot
like try new things and there's not a

lot of games out there that try to be
like serious and I think there's a big
hole there that needs to be filled and
more people should try to make like not
children's games but more like games for
adults and mature people and often when

people make games they kind of settle
for one concept and go for it all the
time instead of trying to add some
variation to the concept and that can be
really boring in the long run and I also

don't think games don't really need to
be fun many people seem to think that
but you can actually make games that are
just like interesting or weird or just
creep you out and that's kind of part of
creating the atmosphere you can use
sounds and graphics and everything to
create a really a unique experience
so here I've made a game that tries to
be unique and it it doesn't have like
the expected results of your actions
like though this burger and the

explosion becomes and it's not like you

you'd expect an explosion to act like

[Music]

[Music]

[Music]

[Music]

[Music]

[Music]

[Music]

[Laughter]

yeah now I'm gonna talk about how to
make graphics interesting and this can
be really difficult if you're making a
gaming like four or five hours so yeah
this several versions I've tried to

explain and yeah they're all really easy

to do actually I'm gonna go with doodle
first you start by drawing a character

and it it doesn't have to look very good
at all it can look really [ __ ] like this
and then you animate it and it looks a

little bit better and then yeah he can
walk around like yeah and then you can

like change color to save time and they
walk around and look pretty okay
yeah then we have the outline where you

only draw outlines instead of sitting on
the sprites and no shading at all so it
saves a lot of time and when you piece

it together it looks pretty good and
then you can add motion and it looks
pretty all right yeah and once you get
the basic configure mint figured out you

can just add a lot of different graphics

really easily to make it look different
but still look good

here's the pixelated one where you draw
like really tiny graphics and usually
you can do pretty good animations when
you have like really small sprites and
then you blow it up so it looks bigger

and then you can add color to make look

a bit more interesting and once you get
the final product you can like change
the scales of the graphics and have it

look like pretty weird so that's only

one sprite and it looks pretty decent
and there here's like basic shapes or

geometrical graphics or whatever you
want to call it and the worst thing you

can do is like have two saturated colors
it's not really interesting to look at
it and it kind of hurts the ice a bit so
you decide you rate it a bit then can
make it more interesting by slightly
rotating it a bit it looks a bit more
interesting than flat squares and you
can have less statics by like making a
switch a lip of it and maybe change
color and you add the atmosphere to make

it look like hey this is not just random
shapes it's actually more interesting
but it's really not but yeah
and then you can have like a reign of
fate and it's everything in this example
is made by one sprite so yeah it's
pretty --scent and you can try to make
more interesting by adding a slightly
different rain effect which yeah looks
kind of okay here's the shitty graphics

example where you just like you can't
really draw a lot and you use paint or
some other really stupid too and the

animations are quite important I think
so but yeah it doesn't really matter
exactly how you do them this looks
pretty weird but it's kind of
interesting I think at least and yeah

I'm going to show two examples of this
so yeah this looks kind of bad but yeah

once it's animated it looks pretty
decent and the backgrounds yeah like

this really suck a lot they look totally
boring but once you scale them they look
pretty decent right yeah and you have
some parallax coding and stuff like that
and then you add the cowboy so yeah

[Laughter]

that's actually Morse code actually and

here I'm gonna try to explain how to
make like really stiff graphics look
more interesting like when you make a
level I really don't like it when
everything is just static
so you add some elements like you make

the blocks flicker and it looks a lot
more interesting already now I added the

so the color isn't really the same all
the time so it looks a bit even more
interesting even though it's really
really boring here's a simple color

shifting based on the coordinates of the
blocks might look good in some games I'm

not sure and and also just make the

blocks like regular round a bit and it
looks pretty decent I think compared to
like stiff graphics I think that was

supposed to say gameplay but Oh boring

gameplay

the enemy's allowed children and this

example is probably more enlightening
like who wants to jump an enemy like
this many times and here's an example of

more response to like yeah and there is

if you like want to make a game in a few
hours these are some really important
points to think of before you start
yeah preparations you have to go to the
bathroom before you start it's really
annoying trying to make a game when you
need to [ __ ] or you need to pee
it's it really ruins the mood it's only

not possible and I'm not sure I yeah and
yet you have to eat and drink before
it's really important to not be hungry
because you lose creativity when you're
hungry and need to drink but you're not
supposed to overeat
it just goes back to the first point
where you have to go to the bathroom and
you feel kind of bloated and yeah it's
not good and you have to have an idea
before you start I don't count the
conception of the idea as a game
development time I'm not sure if I
should but I'm cheating is if that's the
case but I don't want to sit like this
in front of the computer I have no idea
what to do and you need to use the right

tools you need to find something that
you're comfortable to work in and
something that you know will work for
like the period you're aiming for you
can't just use anything and hope that
you will run it as you start and you

need to use shortcuts like every time
you can spare some seconds just try to
go for it it's worth it in the end

[Laughter]

yeah this is really important actually
music actually makes a lot more it a

game with bad music and bad audio is lot
worse than a game with good audio and
good music so yeah this is about music
and sound of eights and this is the best
tool I've ever ever downloaded for sound
effects it's called SFX err by dr.
patter and you can just click one of
these like pick up coins laser shoot
explosion power up it jump or blip and
it will make like a perfect sound the
first time you try it so you don't have
to waste any time at all on doing that
and this is like if we were application
so it's totally awesome everyone should
have it and for music you need to find

online musicians that are willing to
share their music with you I usually
don't actually contact people about
using their music and I just steal their
tunes and hope that they won't get angry

but if you're like entering a big
competition or something might be a good
idea to send out an email yeah yeah they

might want some of the money you win

if you guys want you can ask some
questions or I can show some rapidly
developed games that I think are really
impressive
again this is a variation of snake that

I really like because it has really nice
graphics and it really works
and it was made in like two or three
hours yeah it's basically a like snake

but with the graphics yeah yeah I'm not

that good at it here's a variation of uh

none of you guys have played it but
there's a game a really cool game called
I wish a word the moon and yeah this is

like you have to find all the different
endings for the game I really forget it

apparently yeah

[Applause]
yeah it's pretty fun for a three-hour
game this is one of my favorite rapidly

developed games

[Music]

you get bigger the further you run and
you have to avoid eating one myth and
you can switch side
[Music]

yes Boyd rocket
[Music]

I'm not that good at it I think this one

was made in like a day maybe and it has

like really nice graphics
it's got like a VHS style graphics with

a disturbance lines and stuff yeah yeah

it's a nice game

[Music]
this one has really nice graphics at
least I think so
[Music]

[Music]

I'm terrible at playing games I'm better
at making them I hope so

yeah I think that's about all the time I
have
[Applause]

you